docs/book/src/developer/providers/bootstrap.md, before:

# Bootstrap Provider Specification

## Overview

A bootstrap provider generates bootstrap data that is used to bootstrap a Kubernetes node.

## Data Types

### Bootstrap API resource
A bootstrap provider must define an API type for bootstrap resources. The type:

1. Must belong to an API group served by the Kubernetes apiserver
2. May be implemented as a CustomResourceDefinition, or as part of an aggregated apiserver
3. Must be namespace-scoped
4. Must have the standard Kubernetes "type metadata" and "object metadata"
5. Should have a `spec` field containing fields relevant to the bootstrap provider
6. Must have a `status` field with the following:
    1. Required fields:
        1. `ready` (boolean): indicates the bootstrap data has been generated and is ready
        1. `dataSecretName` (string): the name of the secret that stores the generated bootstrap data
    2. Optional fields:
        1. `failureReason` (string): indicates there is a fatal problem reconciling the bootstrap data;
            meant to be suitable for programmatic interpretation
        2. `failureMessage` (string): indicates there is a fatal problem reconciling the bootstrap data;
            meant to be a more descriptive value than `failureReason`

Note: because the `dataSecretName` is part of `status`, this value must be deterministically recreatable from the data in the
`Cluster`, `Machine`, and/or bootstrap resource. If the name is randomly generated, it is not always possible to move
the resource and its associated secret from one management cluster to another.

### Bootstrap Secret

The `Secret` containing bootstrap data must:

1. Use the API resource's `status.dataSecretName` for its name
1. Have the label `cluster.x-k8s.io/cluster-name` set to the name of the cluster
1. Have a controller owner reference to the API resource
1. Have a single key, `value`, containing the bootstrap data

## Behavior

A bootstrap provider must respond to changes to its bootstrap resources. This process is
typically called reconciliation. The provider must watch for new, updated, and deleted resources and respond
accordingly.

The following diagram shows the typical logic for a bootstrap provider:

![Bootstrap provider activity diagram](../../images/bootstrap-provider.png)

1. If the resource does not have a `Machine` owner, exit the reconciliation
    1. The Cluster API `Machine` reconciler populates this based on the value in the `Machine`'s `spec.bootstrap.configRef`
       field.
1. If the resource has `status.failureReason` or `status.failureMessage` set, exit the reconciliation
1. If the `Cluster` to which this resource belongs cannot be found, exit the reconciliation
1. Deterministically generate the name for the bootstrap data secret
1. Try to retrieve the `Secret` with the name from the previous step
    1. If it does not exist, generate bootstrap data and create the `Secret`
1. Set `status.dataSecretName` to the generated name
1. Set `status.ready` to true
1. Patch the resource to persist changes

## RBAC

### Provider controller

A bootstrap provider must have RBAC permissions for the types it defines, as well as the bootstrap data `Secret`
resources it manages. If you are using `kubebuilder` to generate new API types, these permissions should be configured
for you automatically. For example, the Kubeadm bootstrap provider the following configuration for its `KubeadmConfig`
type:

```
// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=bootstrap.cluster.x-k8s.io,resources=kubeadmconfigs;kubeadmconfigs/status,verbs=get;list;watch;create;update;patch;delete
// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups="",resources=secrets,verbs=get;list;watch;create;update;patch;delete
```

A bootstrap provider may also need RBAC permissions for other types, such as `Cluster`. If you need
read-only access, you can limit the permissions to `get`, `list`, and `watch`. The following
configuration can be used for retrieving `Cluster` resources:

```
// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=cluster.x-k8s.io,resources=clusters;clusters/status,verbs=get;list;watch
```

### Cluster API controllers

The Cluster API controller for `Machine` resources is configured with full read/write RBAC permissions for all resources
in the `bootstrap.cluster.x-k8s.io` API group. This group represents all bootstrap providers for SIG Cluster
Lifecycle-sponsored provider subprojects. If you are writing a provider not sponsored by the SIG, you must add new RBAC
permissions for the Cluster API `manager-role` role, granting it full read/write access to the bootstrap resource in
your API group.

Note, the write permissions allow the `Machine` controller to set owner references and labels on the bootstrap
resources; they are not used for general mutations of these resources.

Commit message:

Refresh from upstream (#7)
This commit applies latest changes (last pulled Wed 30th Jan ~11:30 UTC+0) from
upstream. Whenever I faced conflicts or differences between our forked master
and upstream/master, I checked out --theirs.

The circle config was also modified to build & push the containers to Quay & Aliyun
while relying on vanilla upstream Makefile.

docs/book/src/developer/providers/bootstrap.md, after:

# Bootstrap Provider Specification

## Overview

A bootstrap provider generates bootstrap data that is used to bootstrap a Kubernetes node.

## Data Types

### Bootstrap API resource
A bootstrap provider must define an API type for bootstrap resources. The type:

1. Must belong to an API group served by the Kubernetes apiserver
2. May be implemented as a CustomResourceDefinition, or as part of an aggregated apiserver
3. Must be namespace-scoped
4. Must have the standard Kubernetes "type metadata" and "object metadata"
5. Should have a `spec` field containing fields relevant to the bootstrap provider
6. Must have a `status` field with the following:
    1. Required fields:
        1. `ready` (boolean): indicates the bootstrap data has been generated and is ready
        1. `dataSecretName` (string): the name of the secret that stores the generated bootstrap data
    2. Optional fields:
        1. `failureReason` (string): indicates there is a fatal problem reconciling the bootstrap data;
            meant to be suitable for programmatic interpretation
        2. `failureMessage` (string): indicates there is a fatal problem reconciling the bootstrap data;
            meant to be a more descriptive value than `failureReason`

Note: because the `dataSecretName` is part of `status`, this value must be deterministically recreatable from the data in the
`Cluster`, `Machine`, and/or bootstrap resource. If the name is randomly generated, it is not always possible to move
the resource and its associated secret from one management cluster to another.

### Bootstrap Secret

The `Secret` containing bootstrap data must:

1. Use the API resource's `status.dataSecretName` for its name
1. Have the label `cluster.x-k8s.io/cluster-name` set to the name of the cluster
1. Have a controller owner reference to the API resource
1. Have a single key, `value`, containing the bootstrap data

## Behavior

A bootstrap provider must respond to changes to its bootstrap resources. This process is
typically called reconciliation. The provider must watch for new, updated, and deleted resources and respond
accordingly.

The following diagram shows the typical logic for a bootstrap provider:

![Bootstrap provider activity diagram](../../images/bootstrap-provider.png)

1. If the resource does not have a `Machine` owner, exit the reconciliation
    1. The Cluster API `Machine` reconciler populates this based on the value in the `Machine`'s `spec.bootstrap.configRef`
       field.
1. If the resource has `status.failureReason` or `status.failureMessage` set, exit the reconciliation
1. If the `Cluster` to which this resource belongs cannot be found, exit the reconciliation
1. Deterministically generate the name for the bootstrap data secret
1. Try to retrieve the `Secret` with the name from the previous step
    1. If it does not exist, generate bootstrap data and create the `Secret`
1. Set `status.dataSecretName` to the generated name
1. Set `status.ready` to true
1. Patch the resource to persist changes

## Sentinel File

A bootstrap provider's bootstrap data must create `/run/cluster-api/bootstrap-success.complete` (or `C:\run\cluster-api\bootstrap-success.complete` for Windows machines) upon successful bootstrapping of a Kubernetes node. This allows infrastructure providers to detect and act on bootstrap failures.

## RBAC

### Provider controller

A bootstrap provider must have RBAC permissions for the types it defines, as well as the bootstrap data `Secret`
resources it manages. If you are using `kubebuilder` to generate new API types, these permissions should be configured
for you automatically. For example, the Kubeadm bootstrap provider the following configuration for its `KubeadmConfig`
type:

```
// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=bootstrap.cluster.x-k8s.io,resources=kubeadmconfigs;kubeadmconfigs/status,verbs=get;list;watch;create;update;patch;delete
// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups="",resources=secrets,verbs=get;list;watch;create;update;patch;delete
```

A bootstrap provider may also need RBAC permissions for other types, such as `Cluster`. If you need
read-only access, you can limit the permissions to `get`, `list`, and `watch`. The following
configuration can be used for retrieving `Cluster` resources:

```
// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=cluster.x-k8s.io,resources=clusters;clusters/status,verbs=get;list;watch
```

### Cluster API controllers

The Cluster API controller for `Machine` resources is configured with full read/write RBAC permissions for all resources
in the `bootstrap.cluster.x-k8s.io` API group. This group represents all bootstrap providers for SIG Cluster
Lifecycle-sponsored provider subprojects. If you are writing a provider not sponsored by the SIG, you must add new RBAC
permissions for the Cluster API `manager-role` role, granting it full read/write access to the bootstrap resource in
your API group.

Note, the write permissions allow the `Machine` controller to set owner references and labels on the bootstrap
resources; they are not used for general mutations of these resources.
